then Wednesday's breakfast come from
Island oh and while the plan cakes made
from potato potatoes so explain more
about this this is an Irish potato cake
okay we're going to make our very own
using potato flour and chive again we
can use that to sandwich between roasted
tomatoes black pudding and some streaky
bacon it was an awesome brunch dish we
can make easy-peasy no trouble at all
stop the potato so a couple of large
potatoes just peeled quartered put into
cold salted water you have brought up
the ball for about 15 minutes or so okay
I knew in that with that okay
so there we go we just jump that step
just drain those potatoes and then pop
them back into our pan yeah and now a
quick mash okay so we just want a
completely dry mash the potatoes no
added butter or milk or anything like
that so we just season the potatoes off
at this point
plenty of salt and pepper so this
Republic of Ireland or Northern ID uh
well I was here ago island in s good day
hotel I worked at there for a year and
they used to use these all the time hey
you can buy them pre-made you can even
buy them in supermarkets yeah
you see how simple they are I can
actually make them home no job at all so
I just take some chives give those a
quick slice it up and then if your
potato is well mash which i think is
we'll get rid of our masher and add in
our flour okay so this is like potato
bread really I suppose you're going to
roll out I'm going to cook it and use it
to sandwich two things together yeah so
they often either use them fried with a
brunch or with breakfast once you got
all that flour combined I'm gonna put
the chives in when I put your hands in
there get some the potato we're gonna
start molding this it is gonna be quite
hot but well you know I have one cans a
good dusting of flour on our board then
we take what is now this kind of mashed
potato bread almost dough because the
flour we put it yeah and we'll put
enough just to make the base of our
frying pan okay so we want all right
that kinda you can just kind of pack out
to a nice circle yeah that's fairly
thick keep it nice and round as you go
and kind of level all over then I'm
going to put a glug of oil into our
frying pan and all we now need to do is
fry this off okay so nice and thin all
over just is similar to yaki really
similar and since it's mashed potatoes
then sort of thickened with flour yeah a
difference being it's not enriched with
egg or Chee
anything like that and we're going to
fry it instead of point it all right so
this stage we'll take our potato fold
okay nice flowery bottom nice and round
that's going to go in here take your
file it's and then they call it above
and beyond potato pancake we came to a
farm
yeah I can see how that works so again
we just fry on that side for a couple of
minutes then we'll turn over and do the
same we Ella mm-hmm while we're waiting
for that to do
we'll make our middle okay what we're
going to sandwich in between so some
streaky bacon you can just lay a couple
of those out you can do and I've got
some black pudding here which all I'm
going to do is take off the kind of
plasticky membrane cool can we explain a
bit more about black pudding because as
soon as it seems to get a bit of a bad
about it it's an awesome awesome pork
based product that uses pig blood so
that's why people are very concerned by
you know they know it's got blood in it
but it's just a really good kind of
sausage blood sausage well worth a try
if you haven't already tried it
black pudding making sure they come from
the same animal that's exactly the same
edible yes so basically strips going to
come from the back of the bat back of
the pig down there right and this is a
whole number of variety different bits
of pig but within the blood to find it
okay without sources other things so if
you're happy to eat bacon give that
pudding go okay well the bacon black
pudding small so Grill under there we
can actually flip our potato fault over
well hey Matt she got a nice kind of
crispy bottom that is another couple
minutes on the other side what's under
the grill needs couple minutes as well
to finish cooking through and then we
can show you how to pile up our
breakfast brunch Jamie if you can grab
our grilled stuff out have a little look
at our potato file which we can just
slide out on to that table there and
then cut them into quarters
traditionally I don't know why but Ted
files always serve in triangles now what
we need is something to plate it up on
I'm sorry someone to plate it up on this
is definitely a leprechauns stool
no it's not as nice as the one being
generalistic it's nice chopping board
all we're gonna do is place our potato
file on the bottom there layer up
everything in the middle so some strips
of bacon bit of black pudding some fresh
roasted tomatoes and then our other one
on top you see we've got plenty more to
make another one on top of the loads and
loads and loads going on so there we go
it's our Irish potato cake breakfast
sorted and I think it needs a good
splodge of sorts as well so dig into
that I'm Jed Woodley looking forward to
this hmm honestly I am NOT on my Nelly
did I think it would taste as good
potato
black pudding now that an Irish
Breakfast I would definitely have this
for the west my life if I could you have
been whipped me cause that is good hmm
lots of people don't we don't have any
girls that's because this is definitely
a void zone enough with the Irish
musicians already